ODriveSetup.md, before:

# ODrive Setup

## Settings
Overvoltage Trip Level: If using a power supply, use the max voltage of the power supply + 1.
```
odrv0.config.dc_bus_overvoltage_trip_level = 25  
```
Or if using the batteries, use the number of cells * 4.25 + 2. (Add a little extra in case the battery is filled up).
```
odrv0.config.dc_bus_overvoltage_trip_level = 53
```
Undervoltage Trip Level: Use the number of cells * 3.6.

3.3 V is the absolute minimum, but it's better to stop at 3.6 V.
```
odrv0.config.dc_bus_undervoltage_trip_level = 43.2
```

Max Positive Current: Use the C rating on your batteries divided by the number of ODrives being used. This is the current on the power supply side, so it's not necessarily going to match the current demanded by the motors.

150C * 1.2 Ah / 5 = 36
```
odrv0.config.dc_max_positive_current = 36
```
Max Negative Current and Max Regen Current: -1  and 0 if you do not have regen braking. 

If you do have regen braking, the highest value would be max charge rate * p count. Max charge rate should be found from the battery specifications, or you can use 1C to be safe...

12S1P, Max Charge = 5C * 1.2Ah = 6A

But, remember to divide by the number of ODrives you apply this to. Since there are 5 ODrives, that's 1.2A regen per...
```
odrv0.config.dc_max_negative_current = -1.2
odrv0.config.max_regen_current = 1.2
```

Use the onboard encoder:
```
odrv0.axis0.config.load_encoder = EncoderId.ONBOARD_ENCODER0
odrv0.axis0.config.commutation_encoder = EncoderId.ONBOARD_ENCODER0
```

Set the number of pole pairs.
 - RMDX10: 21 (42 poles and 36 slots)
 - R100kv90: 21
 - 8318: 14

```
odrv0.axis0.config.motor.pole_pairs = 21
```

Other initial settings to use:
```
odrv0.axis0.config.calibration_lockin.current = 20
odrv0.axis0.config.motor.current_soft_max = 60
odrv0.axis0.controller.config.vel_limit = 20
odrv0.axis0.config.motor.current_control_bandwidth = 2000
odrv0.axis0.config.encoder_bandwidth = 1500
odrv0.axis0.controller.config.spinout_mechanical_power_threshold = -1000
odrv0.axis0.controller.config.spinout_electrical_power_threshold = 1000
odrv0.axis0.config.startup_encoder_offset_calibration = False
odrv0.axis0.config.startup_closed_loop_control = True
```
Note that `resistance_calib_max_voltage` can't be more than half your bus voltage.

```
odrv0.axis0.config.motor.resistance_calib_max_voltage = 20
```

## Current Hard Max
The `current_hard_max` setting is a safety limit. If the motor surpasses this limit, the ODrive shuts down to protect it from overheating. The appropriate safety limit depends on the motor.

- R100: 120 A
- R80: 60 A
- RMD-X10: 80 A

Note that some of these are higher than the "peak" rated current. That's okay for us as long as the robot is only running for a few seconds at a time.

Also note that ODrive Pro max current output is 120 A.

```
odrv0.axis0.config.motor.current_hard_max = 120
```


## Calibration

1. odrv0.axis0.requested_state = AXIS_STATE_MOTOR_CALIBRATION
2. odrv0.axis0.requested_state = AXIS_STATE_FULL_CALIBRATION_SEQUENCE
3. odrv0.axis0.requested_state = AXIS_STATE_ENCODER_OFFSET_CALIBRATION

For troubleshooting the encoder values:
```
odrv0.axis0.requested_state = AxisState.ENCODER_DIR_FIND.error
```
- should return 0.

```
odrv0.axis0.encoder.config.phase_offset
```
- This should print a number, like -326 or 1364.

```
odrv0.axis0..encoder.config.direction
```
- This should print 1 or -1.

To test position control:
```
odrv0.axis0.controller.input_pos = 1
odrv0.axis0.requested_state = AxisState.CLOSED_LOOP_CONTROL
odrv0.axis0.controller.config.control_mode = CONTROL_MODE_POSITION_CONTROL
```
Or, for velocity:
```
odrv0.axis0.controller.input_vel = 1
odrv0.axis0.requested_state = AxisState.CLOSED_LOOP_CONTROL
odrv0.axis0.controller.config.control_mode = CONTROL_MODE_VELOCITY_CONTROL
```
To disable:
```
odrv0.axis0.requested_state = AxisState.IDLE
```

## Useful functions
```
dump_errors(odrv0)
odrv0.save_configuration()
odrv0.clear_errors()
```

To get shadow count:
```
odrv0.onboard_encoder0
```

[Extra info on the API, which isn't in the documentation](https://github.com/odriverobotics/ODrive/blob/master/Firmware/odrive-interface.yaml)

## CAN bus settings

```
odrv0.axis0.config.can.node_id = 0
odrv0.can.config.baud_rate = 100000
```
## Safety
```
axis.config.enable_watchdog = True
axis.config.watchdog_timeout = 5
```

Commit message:

Added reaction wheel saturation check and torque limiting option

ODriveSetup.md, after:

# ODrive Setup

## Settings
Overvoltage Trip Level: If using a power supply, use the max voltage of the power supply + 1.
```
odrv0.config.dc_bus_overvoltage_trip_level = 25  
```
Or if using the batteries, use the number of cells * 4.25 + 2. (Add a little extra in case the battery is filled up).
```
odrv0.config.dc_bus_overvoltage_trip_level = 53
```
Undervoltage Trip Level: Use the number of cells * 3.6.

3.3 V is the absolute minimum, but it's better to stop at 3.6 V.
```
odrv0.config.dc_bus_undervoltage_trip_level = 43.2
```

Max Positive Current: Use the C rating on your batteries divided by the number of ODrives being used. This is the current on the power supply side, so it's not necessarily going to match the current demanded by the motors.

With 1.2 Ah pack:
150C * 1.2 Ah / 5 = 36A
```
odrv0.config.dc_max_positive_current = 36
```

With 5 Ah pack:
150C * 5 Ah / 5 = 150A
```
odrv0.config.dc_max_positive_current = 150
```


Max Negative Current and Max Regen Current: -1  and 0 if you do not have regen braking. 

If you do have regen braking, the highest value would be max charge rate * p count. Max charge rate should be found from the battery specifications, or you can use 1C to be safe...

Remember to divide by the number of ODrives you apply this to. There are 5 ODrives. Currently we require only 3 (the reaction wheels) to have regen.

12S1P, 5C, 1.2Ah, Max Charge = 5 * 1.2 / 3 = 2A

```
odrv0.config.dc_max_negative_current = -2
odrv0.config.max_regen_current = 2
```

12S1P, 15C, 5Ah, Max Charge = 15 * 5 / 3 = 25A

```
odrv0.config.dc_max_negative_current = -25
odrv0.config.max_regen_current = 25
```

Use the onboard encoder:
```
odrv0.axis0.config.load_encoder = EncoderId.ONBOARD_ENCODER0
odrv0.axis0.config.commutation_encoder = EncoderId.ONBOARD_ENCODER0
```

Set the number of pole pairs.
 - RMDX10: 21 (42 poles and 36 slots)
 - R100kv90: 21
 - 8318: 14

```
odrv0.axis0.config.motor.pole_pairs = 21
```

Other initial settings to use:
```
odrv0.axis0.config.calibration_lockin.current = 20
odrv0.axis0.config.motor.current_soft_max = 60
odrv0.axis0.controller.config.vel_limit = 20
odrv0.axis0.config.motor.current_control_bandwidth = 2000
odrv0.axis0.config.encoder_bandwidth = 1500
odrv0.axis0.controller.config.spinout_mechanical_power_threshold = -1000
odrv0.axis0.controller.config.spinout_electrical_power_threshold = 1000
odrv0.axis0.config.startup_encoder_offset_calibration = False
odrv0.axis0.config.startup_closed_loop_control = True
```
Note that `resistance_calib_max_voltage` can't be more than half your bus voltage.

```
odrv0.axis0.config.motor.resistance_calib_max_voltage = 20
```

## Current Hard Max
The `current_hard_max` setting is a safety limit. If the motor surpasses this limit, the ODrive shuts down to protect it from overheating. The appropriate safety limit depends on the motor.

- R100: 120 A
- R80: 60 A
- RMD-X10: 80 A

Note that some of these are higher than the "peak" rated current. That's okay for us as long as the robot is only running for a few seconds at a time.

Also note that ODrive Pro max current output is 120 A.

```
odrv0.axis0.config.motor.current_hard_max = 120
```


## Calibration

1. odrv0.axis0.requested_state = AXIS_STATE_MOTOR_CALIBRATION
2. odrv0.axis0.requested_state = AXIS_STATE_FULL_CALIBRATION_SEQUENCE
3. odrv0.axis0.requested_state = AXIS_STATE_ENCODER_OFFSET_CALIBRATION

For troubleshooting the encoder values:
```
odrv0.axis0.requested_state = AxisState.ENCODER_DIR_FIND.error
```
- should return 0.

```
odrv0.axis0.encoder.config.phase_offset
```
- This should print a number, like -326 or 1364.

```
odrv0.axis0..encoder.config.direction
```
- This should print 1 or -1.

To test position control:
```
odrv0.axis0.controller.input_pos = 1
odrv0.axis0.requested_state = AxisState.CLOSED_LOOP_CONTROL
odrv0.axis0.controller.config.control_mode = CONTROL_MODE_POSITION_CONTROL
```
Or, for velocity:
```
odrv0.axis0.controller.input_vel = 1
odrv0.axis0.requested_state = AxisState.CLOSED_LOOP_CONTROL
odrv0.axis0.controller.config.control_mode = CONTROL_MODE_VELOCITY_CONTROL
```
To disable:
```
odrv0.axis0.requested_state = AxisState.IDLE
```

## Useful functions
```
dump_errors(odrv0)
odrv0.save_configuration()
odrv0.clear_errors()
```

To get shadow count:
```
odrv0.onboard_encoder0
```

[Extra info on the API, which isn't in the documentation](https://github.com/odriverobotics/ODrive/blob/master/Firmware/odrive-interface.yaml)

## CAN bus settings

```
odrv0.axis0.config.can.node_id = 0
odrv0.can.config.baud_rate = 100000
```
## Safety
```
axis.config.enable_watchdog = True
axis.config.watchdog_timeout = 5
```
